

JUAN IBIAPINA


  ------------------------
  juanibiapina@gmail.com
  Porto Alegre, Brazil
  +55 51 91820304
  ------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Summary

I have 6 years of experience with web development. I have worked in many
different layers of software development, including backend, front end,
mobile and server automation. My main focus is back end and I advocate
code quality, readability and maintainability.

My main skill is learning, and I like to stretch it in daily challenging
situations. I was lucky to have had the opportunity to join my first
three jobs without knowledge of the technologies involved and have
learned them. I love environments where I can grow, surrounded by smart
and interesting people.

I love to code, and more specifically, I love programming languages and
paradigms. I have experience with many programming languages and
technologies, and willing to learn anything. I’m also confident working
with fast delivery, continuous integration and many agile ideas. I’m
fluent in Portuguese and English and also a game and music enthusiast.


Experience

Software Developer at Globo.com

May 2015 - Present _(1 year 5 months)_

I joined Globo.com to work on the web media platform team. Our team is
responsible for receiving and encoding videos to be prepared for
internet delivery. We work on a system that provides both an UI and an
API for uploading videos and metadata. We use mainly Rails with
Coffeescript. This system is distributed in more than 50 locations
across Brazil, gathering and processing videos from all partners. We
also experiment a little with microservices when it makes sense.

This has been an incredible experience for me so far. Even though Globo
already has a strong office culture in Rio, I helped shape the Porto
Alegre office culture in our own way and took active part on hiring
processes. I also learn a lot about mentoring and how to become a better
example to other people.

Software Developer at Bearch, Inc.

November 2014 - April 2015 _(6 months)_

We developed an anonymous social network.

The whole team worked with all parts of the development, so I had the
opportunity to work with a Go backend hosted on Google App Engine, an
Android and an IoS application. All of these technologies were new to
me.

Full Stack Developer at e-Core

March 2013 - November 2014 _(1 year 9 months)_

We developed a single page application for a remote client in New York.

It consisted mainly of Rails and Coffeescript, but I also had the
opportunity to learn Grails, Puppet, Chef, Solr, Mongo, Postgres and
Redis among others. I was hired not only because I knew some of the
technologies involved but also because I was willing to learn the ones I
didn’t know. This was a project that could change very fast.

This was my first significant contact with infrastructure and
automation. After I joined, we changed the deployment from a manual two
hour process to fully automatic 160 seconds. We experimented with
virtual machines, docker containers, different deploy and provisioning
strategies. I spent most of my time working from home, since the whole
team was remote anyway.

Full Stack Developer at Codeminer42

July 2012 - February 2013 _(8 months)_

We developed systems for startups.

It was my first experience with Rails, but also included some front-end
development. Since each developer was responsible for managing a whole
project, our responsibilities involved coding, creating interfaces,
thinking about user experience, negotiating with clients etc. Some of
these things I had to learn on the fly.

We tried to incorporate and contribute to edge rails and gems. We also
tried to focus on fast delivery, adopting agile practices that helped us
achieve that goal. We were a very tightly coupled team with similar
backgrounds and motivations.

I was also one of the first people to be hired on our branch of the
company, so I had the opportunity to help build the culture we wanted.
Even given my inexperience at the time, I learned a lot from the
experience and it helped shape some of my future career goals.

Development Consultant at ThoughtWorks

January 2011 - June 2012 _(1 year 6 months)_

Consisted mainly of consulting and web development for the retail
industry, with daily client facing situations. I worked mostly on
maintaining and developing new features for a large legacy Java code
base. Teams were distributed across Brazil, India and the US.

This was my first contact with agile practices. I have learned much from
it, including the importance of pair programming, TDD and Continuous
Integration. I had a mentor that helped me build most of my ideas about
development.

I was part of initiatives to improve the development and feedback
cycles. We introduced Javascript unit tests into the continuous
integration framework, incentivized the culture of looking into build
status and extended the development tools. All of these initiatives
improved the team speed and motivation. I was really proud to build
something important for the team.


Education

Universidade Federal do Piauí (UFPI)

Bachelor of Science (BS), Computer Science, 2004 - 2007


Languages

-   Portuguese (Native)
-   English (Professional proficiency)
